---
title: "Music Hackathon NYC"
date: 2012-07-28 10:00am
address: "199 Lafayette St, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10012"
rsvp: "https://www.eventbrite.com/o/monthly-music-hackathon-nyc-2470452960r"
---
Monthly Music Hackathon NYC is a monthly, all-day event for musicians, programmers, composers, and engineers to collaboratively or independently come up with new music-related project ideas, spend all day making them, and perform or present them to each other and a small audience.

We’re going to try to have one the last Saturday of each month.  The first one is scheduled as follows:

# Schedule

- 10 AM hacking begins
- 8 PM concert/presentation of projects

# Talks

- **Didier Aschour** is an experimental guitarist and composer from France. He’s in NYC for the summer on a grant from the French Institute working with American composers Christian Wolff, Alvin Lucier, Pauline Oliveros, and others. His performances — both solo and with his acclaimed ensemeble Dedalus — of the music of Tom Johnson, Harry Partch, James Tenney, and Michael Pisaro are widely praised. He’ll be available to collaborate with you on music for electric and acoustic guitar, and will perform his composition Buzzing which explores a technique to make multiphonic sounds with the guitar. 

- **Joe Drew** is a fantastic trumpet player, keyboardist, composer, and Stockhausen scholar based in NYC. His 9-, 12-, and 24-hour performances of John Cage’s ASLSP are legendary. He’ll also be collaborating with the hackers on music for trumpet, and will perform a piece for trumpet and pre-recorded sound. 
 
