---
title: "January 19, 2013 Music Hackathon NYC"
date: 2013-01-19 11:30am
address: "199 Lafayette St, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10012"
rsvp: "http://monthlymusichackathonnyc.eventbrite.com/"
image: "2013-01-19.jpg"
---

# Schedule

- 10 AM hacking begins
- 8 PM concert/presentation of projects

# Details

Start thinking of music hacks involving a cello! Amazing cellist Colette Alexander will be in residence at the January 2013 Music Hackathon NYC. She’ll be available throughout the day to collaborate on whatever crazy project you can think of. Amplification and a small arsenal of processing pedals will also be available.

In addition to being a top-notch performer and arranger, Colette is also an experienced technology project manager and budding Ruby and JavaScript developer. Maybe there’s a project you can collaborate on where all of these skills can be utilized!?!?!?

If you’re planning to attend the hackathon concert (8pm Jan 19, 199 Lafayette St.), prepare yourself for some innovative use of cello and electronics, and at least one piece of acoustic music where the composition and notation are being generated by software in real time.

Colette Alexander began playing the cello at the age of four. She has recorded and performed with Jens Lekman, Josh Groban, Angelique Kidjo, Rilo Kiley, Rachael Yamagata, Greg Laswell, Girls in Trouble, Au Revoir Borealis, Drafted by Minotaurs, and Matt Jones. With a primary focus on writing/arranging for and performing with pop/rock bands, she has toured extensively in Europe, the U.S. and Asia, and appeared on many recordings. Colette studied classical, contemporary classical, North Indian and Persian Music at Interlochen, Meadowmount, Sarah Lawrence College and the California Institute of the Arts. She currently resides in New York City.
