---
title: "Exquisite Corpses"
description: "A collaborative music composition and performance experiment"
date: 2013-08-31 12:00am
address: "Slader,
199 Lafayette St, Suite 3B
New York, NY 10012"
rsvp: "http://monthlymusichackathonnyc.eventbrite.com/"
---

# Schedule

- Noon

Corpse 1 - Group A
Corpse 2 - Group B
Corpse 3 - Group C
Corpse 4 - Group D
Corpse 5 - Group E
Corpse 6 - Group F

- 1 PM

Corpse 1 - Group F
Corpse 2 - Group A
Corpse 3 - Group B
Corpse 4 - Group C
Corpse 5 - Group D
Corpse 6 - Group E

- 2 PM

Corpse 1 - Group E
Corpse 2 - Group F
Corpse 3 - Group A
Corpse 4 - Group B
Corpse 5 - Group C
Corpse 6 - Group D

- 3 PM

Corpse 1 - Group D
Corpse 2 - Group E
Corpse 3 - Group F
Corpse 4 - Group A
Corpse 5 - Group B
Corpse 6 - Group C

- 4 PM

Corpse 1 - Group C
Corpse 2 - Group D
Corpse 3 - Group E
Corpse 4 - Group F
Corpse 5 - Group A
Corpse 6 - Group B

- 5 PM

Corpse 1 - Group B
Corpse 2 - Group C
Corpse 3 - Group D
Corpse 4 - Group E
Corpse 5 - Group F
Corpse 6 - Group A

- 6 PM Overflow / Scramble / Prep

- 7 PM Tech Rehearsal

- 8 PM Performance of the Exquisite Corpses

- 9 PM Talks about how the corpses were made and presentations of other projects worked on during the hackathon

# Overview
At the August 31st, 2013 Music Hackathon NYC, we’ll be attempting to collaboratively create about an hour of new music in just 7 hours. Anyone is welcome to join us in this experiment, but also feel free to do your own thing at this hackathon – there will be an opportunity for everyone to present their work.

At 8pm we’ll perform what we’ve come up with. If you’re not contributing, please come listen!

# Details
[Exquisite Corpse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exquisite_corpse) is a method for collaboratively creating an art work. One person or group gets it started, then hands it off to any number of other people or groups in sequence, who can add to it or modify it however they see fit. A key twist is that most of the prior work is hidden from the group currently working on it – the current group only has part of the existing thing to build from. This can lead to hilarious drawings of grotesque bodies with hands coming out of necks, for example, hence the name exquisite corpse.

This has been done with music before, but I’m not aware of an exquisite corpse where the medium is software, electronics, or musical instrument building (anyone know of any?). In the context of Monthly Music Hackathon NYC, the only restriction on projects and approaches is that they are somehow related to music: acoustic or electronic live performance, playback of prerecorded sound, real time generation of sound, software, hardware, notated music, improvisation, musical sculpture, software that does something else related to music, etc. If you’re interested in participating but wondering if what you do is an appropriate fit, stop worrying and just come contribute. I’m particularly interested in seeing “corpses” where each round of modification is approached completely differently. So bring your instruments, amps, laptops, audio interfaces, soldering irons, guitar pedals, and ideas. If you’d like to discuss what this will be like or throw out ideas or ask questions please send a message to our email discussion group (Go here to subscribe).

Here’s how it will/might work:

* There will be multiple pieces circulating the room.
* The day will be broken up into one hour segments from noon to 8. At the top of each hour we’ll switch pieces.
* Depending on the number of people who want to participate and if folks want to form groups or not, there may be more or fewer pieces.
* Feel free to bring an idea or piece that you’ve already started – we’ll transform it completely, I’m sure!
* This schedule is in place just to get us going. We can break out of it on a case-by-case basis or altogether if that makes sense.
