---
title: "Halloween Sound Art Installations - Hackers"
description: "Make immersive halloween art and technology installations in this unusual gothic environment!"
date: 2013-10-25 6:00pm
days: # This field is optional but good to set for multi-day events.
  - day: 2013-10-25
    start: 6:00pm
    end: 8:00pm
  - day: 2013-10-26 # Add as many days as needed.
    start:  10:00am
    end: 10:00pm
address: "Control Group, Inc.,
233 Broadway, 21st Floor,
New York, NY 10279"
rsvp: "http://hauntedhackathon.eventbrite.com/"
image: "2013-10-26.png"
---

# Schedule

Fri 10/25: Hacker Orientation
- 6pm - 7pm: Arrive, mingle with other hackers
- 7pm: Tour of spaces available in the historic Woolworth Building where you can make installations. Learn about sensors provided by Control Group. Share ideas with fellow hackers. Find collaborators. Share with the group any equipment you’d be willing to share and skills you bring to the table.

Sat 10/26: Hacking
- 10am: Arrive, mingle with other hackers
- 10:30am: Opening remarks
- 11am: Hacking starts
- 1pm: Lunch
- 8pm: Hacking ends, reception for the public to see your installation starts
- 9pm: Informal talks about what you built


# Description

Monthly Music Hackathon NYC is a monthly all-day event for musicians and engineers to create new music-related projects from scratch, develop them all day on a Saturday, then present the results to the public in the evening.

This month, we’re focusing on sound art installations. Since it’s near Halloween and we’ll be in the creepy Woolworth building, we’re assuming it will be haunted.

This is a rare opportunity to have access to the historic gothic Woolworth Building in lower Manhattan. Control Group will be making an assortment of sensors available and there will be many nooks and crannies in which to build some sort of noise making environment or sculpture or show.

The night before the hacking, we’ll have a tour of the spaces, an intro to the sensors and other equipment available, and an opportunity to share ideas, find collaborators, and talk about equipment you’re bringing and would be willing to share.

All day Saturday we’ll hack. At 8pm we’ll have a reception open to the public to see the installations. And at 9 we’ll give brief informal talks about what we built.

If you will be hacking together a sound art installation (or something like that), RSVP [here](http://hauntedhackathon.eventbrite.com/).

If you want to attend the opening reception and hear about the hacks that were built, RSVP [here](http://hauntedwoolworth.eventbrite.com/). (If you are hacking there is no need to rsvp for the reception.)
