---
title: "Jazz & Technology Forum"
description: "Explore how new technology can be used to research and create Jazz"
date: 2013-04-27 11:30am
address: "Ace Hotel,
20 W 29th St New York, NY 10001"
rsvp: "https://www.eventbrite.com/e/jazz-technology-forum-registration-5567821504"
image: "2013-04-27.png"
---

# Schedule

- 11:20 AM Jazz musicians’ perspective on emerging technology
Ben Wendel and Dan Tepfer

- 11:30 AM Participant introductions
- 11:45 AM Whole-group Q&A and brainstorm of project ideas
- 12:00 PM Decide which projects to work on, break into teams, start working!
- 12:30 PM Lunch, continue working

…hackathon…

- 6:00 PM Collaboratively put together concert program
- 6:30 PM Doors open for concert
- 7:00 PM Introductory talk summarizing the day
- 7:15 PM Concert and presentations of the day’s work

# Talks

- Brian McFee, Postdoctoral research scholar in the Center for Jazz Studies and LabROSA at Columbia University *An approach to music research with new technology*
    * Overview of the field of Music Information Retrieval (MIR)
    * Interesting issues when applying MIR approaches to Jazz
    * Some analysis tools to assist musicians and programmers in hacking
- Ben Lacker, Musician and software engineer


# Description

As part of UNESCO International Jazz Day, the April 2013 Music Hackathon NYC will focus on how new technology can be used to research and create Jazz. We’ll be holding it in a new location, the Ace Hotel on 29th St and Broadway, which has a great conference room for the hackathon and a nice bar for the concert. The day will start with two terrific talks by Monthly Music Hackathon regulars Brian McFee and Ben Lacker, focusing on using new technology for research and creation, respectively.

Recent technological developments are leading to fascinating new ways to create and study music. Columbia University’s Jazz Information Retrieval project is demonstrating that we now have tools to gain new insight into long unanswered questions about how Jazz functions. Inspired by this and UNESCO International Jazz Day, Monthly Music Hackathon NYC and Ace Hotel are teaming up to present an all-day intensive forum to gather thinkers from the technology and music communities to share ideas and rapidly create new music and research. The results will be presented in concert format at 7pm Saturday, April 27th at the Ace Hotel.

If you’d like to participate in the hackathon, please email musichackathon@gmail.com with a sentence or two about why you’re interested, a little about your background and interests in music and/or technology, and any ideas you have for projects for the hackathon. Unfortunately, we have very limited space, so we’ll be registering participants on a first-come, first-serve basis, and also making sure we have a variety of skills and interests represented.
