---
title: "Jazz Hackathon"
description: "To hack is to make something new by deeply investigating, taking apart, and reassembling a subject."
date: 2014-04-26 10:00am
address: "530 W 120th St New York, NY 10027"
rsvp: "http://monthlymusichackathonnyc.eventbrite.com/"
redirect_from:
  - /post/82532096780/jazzhack
  - /post/82532096780/
---

Monthly Music Hackathon NYC and Columbia University Electrical Engineering Department present the 2nd annual:

Jazz Hackathon


# When

April 26, 2014
Hackathon 10am - 8pm
8pm Concert and hack presentations


# Where

Columbia University
Room 750 Costa Commons Engineering, CESPR/Schapiro, 7th floor
530 W 120th St New York, NY 10027
(https://goo.gl/maps/d0iEu)
http://www.wikicu.com/Schapiro_CEPSR


# What

To hack is to make something new by deeply investigating, taking apart, and reassembling a subject.

Hackathons are gatherings for anyone who makes things to spend all day rapidly going through the entire lifecycle of a creative project. It’s an opportunity to try out new ideas, get practice executing a project, share ideas, potentially collaborate, and present what you’ve come up with.

This hackathon will focus on hacking Jazz. Jazz is an incredibly rich subject with a deep history and hundreds of flourishing communities practicing extremely varied interpretations of what it is.

There has been an explosion of development in technological tools for studying music in the past 20 years. Jazz has been studied with these tools somewhat less than other styles of music, presenting an opportunity for new exploration. A research project at Columbia University has been focusing on this opportunity for the last few years. The Jazz Hackathon will kick off with a brief update on their project and an overview of interesting Jazz research projects.

Any sort of project that investigates Jazz is appropriate for the Jazz Hackathon: new pieces of music, new approaches to improvisation, visualizations of audio, Jazz history research, automated Jazz performance, Jazz catalog browsers, the perfect niche Jazz streaming music app, etc, etc, etc. Last year there were projects that re-synthesized a Charlie Parker solo with bird song, a group improvisation guided by a Vine-powered score, automatically generated lead sheets, and much more.


# Who

Anyone who makes things related to Jazz or art and technology or who wants to. Musicians, composers, artists, musicologists, programmers, engineers, scientists, entrepreneurs, designers, weirdos, you.


Sponsored by the Columbia University Electrical Engineering Department

This just in! Jazz Hackathon will feature the ultra-virtuosic ragtime xylophone stylings of Xylopholks!!!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MN0XWcj_L6o" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
