---
title: "Soundscapes Hackathon"
description: "A short summary shown on home page and elsewhere"
date: 2015-04-25 11:30am
address: "45 W 18th St, New York, NY 10011"
rsvp: "https://www.eventbrite.com/o/monthly-music-hackathon-nyc-2470452960"
image: "2015-04-25.jpg"
---
For Earth Day, Monthly Music Hackathon NYC is partnering with NYU’s Citygram project to present talks, workshops, and a hackathon on a wide range of subjects related to soundscapes: audio sensor networks, noise pollution, immersive sound art, research on environmental sound perception in animals, and more. Hack on your own projects or Citygram’s data and tools.

# Schedule

- 11:30 Doors open
- 11:45 Pizza
- 12:00 Talks
- 1:30 Hacking Starts
- 1:30 Brainstorming / Collaborator-finding session
- 1:30 Citygram Workshop, session 1
- 2:30 Citygram Workshop, session 2 (This is a repeat of the 1:30 workshop)
- 8:00 Concert of Hacks & Demos

# Talks

- Citygram

  [Tae Hong Park](http://steinhardt.nyu.edu/faculty/Tae_Hong_Park)

  Professor of Music Composition and Technology, NYU

- Interactive Sonic Ecosystems

  [Michael Musick](http://michaelmusick.com/)

  Music Tech PhD Student, NYU

- Dynamic Representation of Sounds in the Brain

  Everyday, we have to navigate through complex acoustic scenes, composed of a multitude of acoustic objects. Our auditory system continuously performs the astonishing feat of separating out simultaneously presented sounds, and identifying where they came from and who or what they belong to. I will give an overview of the progress that we made in identifying the mechanisms that enable the brain to parse natural and unnatural soundscapes.

  [Maria N. Geffen](http://geffenlab.weebly.com/maria.html), Laboratory of Auditory Coding, UPenn

#Workshop

At 1:30 and 2:30, Tae Hong Park and Michael Musick will give a hands-on workshop on the technology and data sets of Citygram and related projects.

#Open Sound Art Installations

We’re turning a large side room into an all-day, collaborative, open-to-anyone, immersive sound art installation, with a focus on soundscapes, environmental sound, and spatialized sound. All are welcome to come build a sound art installation in this room, as long as you’re happy with other people also building sound art installations near you, and you can coordinate with each other – or agree not to coordinate.
