---
title: "Multisensory Music Hackathon"
description: "Explore the relationship between sound and the senses at the upcoming Multisensory Music Hackathon."
date: 2016-07-09 11:30am
address: "45 W 18th St, New York, NY 10011"
rsvp: "https://www.eventbrite.com/o/monthly-music-hackathon-nyc-2470452960"
image: "2016-07-09.jpg"
---

During this day-long creative event, we welcome you to use sensors to make music out of motion, temperature, light; or explore interactive ways to connect sound to other sensations and media. This hackathon isn’t just for your ears but for your hands, eyes, nose, and taste!

#Schedule

- 11:30 AM - Doors Open
- 12:00 PM - Talks by special guests (see below for details) + Lunch
- 1:00 PM - Hacking, Brainstorming session, and Workshops start
- 8:00 PM - Concert / Demos

#Talks

- [Tony Ro](rolab.ccny.cuny.edu)

  “Synesthesia and Multisensory Interactions in the Human Brain”

  Events occurring in one sensory modality can often affect how we experience sensations in a different sensory modality. For instance, the sound of a mosquito flying near us or the beat of a bass drum may produce sensations of touch on our skin. In this talk, I will describe a series of experiments that examines multisensory interactions between audition, touch, and vision, as well as some of the neural substrates underlying them. In addition to describing studies that have revealed some of the systematic ways in which one sensory modality influences another, I will discuss experiments using brain imaging in neurologically normal subjects as well as on a patient who has a unique form of acquired auditory-tactile synesthesia - the patient experiences somatosensory sensations on her body in response to sounds after a small thalamic lesion. These studies illustrate some of the dynamic interactions between our different sensory systems, the neural mechanisms underlying these interactions, and also highlight the plastic properties of sensory processing in the human brain.


- [Lisa Park](thelisapark.com)

  “Embodiment of Art, Technology, and Emotion”

  Artist Lisa Park will discuss her latest work. She has used biofeedback devices (heart-rate monitor and commercial brainwave sensor) as a tool to investigate her inner states and emotional states to create an audio-visualization of herself.


- [Koen Holtkamp](koenholtkamp.com)

  “Composing for Vibration”

  Musician and artist Koen Holtkamp will discuss his work composing for vibration. Following the talk, audience members are invited to experience a special installation of hand-held vibration boxes.


- [Bora Yoon](borayoon.com)

  Composer, vocalist, and multi-instrumentalist. She creates audiovisual soundscapes using digital devices, voice and found objects and instruments from a variety of cultures and historical centuries to formulate an audiovisual storytelling through music, movement and sound.


- [Dave Rife + Gabe Liberti](daveandgabe.care)

  “Reactive Arrangements and Spatial Audio Environments”
  
  Dave & Gabe will share details of their music installations that integrate unique interface design, 3D audio, and generative compositions.
