---
title: "Music Composition Hackathon"
description: "Spend a day composing music from scratch, collaborating with musicians, composers, computer programmers, and hackers of all sorts."
date: 2017-01-21 12:00am
address: "45 W 18th St, New York, NY 10011"
rsvp: "http://eventbrite.link.or.similar"
image: "2017-01-21.gif"
---

Spend a day composing music from scratch, collaborating with musicians, composers, computer programmers, and hackers of all sorts. In the evening perform what we came up with. **It’s for everyone, even if you’ve never composed any type of music before or tried programming.**

This month we encourage you to use the hackathon to make new music from scratch and perform it at 8pm. **Bring your musical instruments, computer, and anything else you need to make new music.**

At noon, guest composer [Craig Shepard](http://www.onfoot.org/about/) will give a short talk about the all-day workshop he’ll be leading on vocal meditations, listening exercises, and group composition. The workshop is open to anyone willing to make a commitment from Noon to 10pm. No training in any subject is required to participate. Watch [@musichackathon](https://twitter.com/musichackathon) for an announcement of how to sign-up for the workshop.

Music education specialist Ethan Hein will give a workshop on Composition and Production with Soundtrap. Digital audio workstations erase the distinction between composition and production. Soundtrap is an online digital audio workstation with the lowest barrier to entry you could ask for.

At about 12:30pm we’ll form teams (or bands) then we’ll spend the day collaborating on creating new music from scratch. At 8pm we’ll all perform what we came up with.

See you there!

# Schedule

- 11:30 AM - Doors open 

- 12:00 PM - Talks (To be announced later) 

- 1:30 PM - Hacking and optional brainstorming session start 

- 8:00 PM - Project presentations