---
title: "Science of Music Hackathon"
description: "The Monthly Music Hackathon series kicks off 2018 with a Science of Music Hackathon: a day-long, non-competitive, creative event exploring music across the fields of biology, physics, psychology and neuroscience. How does sound propagate through air? How do humans hear? Why does a guitar sound different from a clarinet? The event is open to musicians, students, educators, hackers, and everyone in between. Bring your curiosity and whatever you need to experiment with music!"
date: 2018-02-03 11:30am
address: "45 W 18th St, New York, NY 10011"
rsvp: "https://www.eventbrite.com/e/immersive-music-hackathon-tickets-39600372781"
image: "2018-02-03.jpg"
---
# Schedule
- 11:30 Doors open
- 12:00 Opening talks
- 1:00 Hacking begins; Brainstorming and collaborator-search session
- 2:00 Workshops begin
- 7:00 Sign up to present
- 8:00 Presentations begin

# Speakers and Workshops
- [Marta Olko](https://steinhardt.nyu.edu/marl/people/olko) – Sound design for VR environments

*Talk*

This talk will describe the artistic and technological approaches used for the generation of sound within the “Holojam in Wonderland” project - the first multi-audience theatrical performance in virtual reality. Future plans for sound design and technological development for the upcoming VR projects will also be discussed.



- [Jong Wook Kim](http://jongwook.kim) – Deep Generative Models for Music Understanding

*Talk*

Deep generative models like GANs are pushing the boundaries of art that machines can do. This talk will introduce some background on the deep generative models and discuss how such models can be used for understanding music.

- [Mark Koh](https://github.com/markkohdev) - Audio Analysis w/ Mark Koh

*Talk and Workshop*

How do music scientists find useful information in raw audio data? The Spotify Web API provides useful information about audio, such as beat and bar detection, timbre encoding, pitch data, and more. This talk will discuss the data available to the public, show some examples of how to find and use it, and give a crash course in accessing this data from a Python application.

- Data Sonification Jam

*Workshop*

Scientists and sound artists collaborate to explore science through music, and music through science. BYO Data and/or Sonification tools. Please share links/resources/ideas [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cEkcjvsJU5KIhi--S1tOJGSVTMQJcD72A_6awwgpXt8/edit#).
